search-list/README.md, before:



## REACT, REDUX SEARCH LIST


This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app).

To instal and run the application follow the following steps:

```

1. Clone the repository

2. run "npm i" or "npm install" from the command line

3. run "npm start"

4. Follow instructions to preview in default port from your local host or update port to preview

```
Any issues  [let me know](https://github.com/kukuu?tab=repositories) or follow steps below:

## `npm start` doesn’t detect changes

When you save a file while `npm start` is running, the browser should refresh with the updated code.<br>
If this doesn’t happen, try one of the following workarounds:

* If your project is in a Dropbox folder, try moving it out.
* If the watcher doesn’t see a file called `index.js` and you’re referencing it by the folder name, you [need to restart the watcher](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/issues/1164) due to a Webpack bug.
* Some editors like Vim and IntelliJ have a “safe write” feature that currently breaks the watcher. You will need to disable it. Follow the instructions in [“Adjusting Your Text Editor”](https://webpack.js.org/guides/development/#adjusting-your-text-editor).
* If your project path contains parentheses, try moving the project to a path without them. This is caused by a [Webpack watcher bug](https://github.com/webpack/watchpack/issues/42).
* On Linux and macOS, you might need to [tweak system settings](https://webpack.github.io/docs/troubleshooting.html#not-enough-watchers) to allow more watchers.
* If the project runs inside a virtual machine such as (a Vagrant provisioned) VirtualBox, create an `.env` file in your project directory if it doesn’t exist, and add `CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLING=true` to it. This ensures that the next time you run `npm start`, the watcher uses the polling mode, as necessary inside a VM.

If none of these solutions help please leave a comment [in this thread](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/issues/659).

## `npm test` hangs on macOS Sierra

If you run `npm test` and the console gets stuck after printing `react-scripts test --env=jsdom` to the console there might be a problem with your [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/) installation as described in [facebookincubator/create-react-app#713](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/issues/713).

We recommend deleting `node_modules` in your project and running `npm install` (or `yarn` if you use it) first. If it doesn't help, you can try one of the numerous workarounds mentioned in these issues:

* [facebook/jest#1767](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/1767)
* [facebook/watchman#358](https://github.com/facebook/watchman/issues/358)
* [ember-cli/ember-cli#6259](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/issues/6259)

It is reported that installing Watchman 4.7.0 or newer fixes the issue. If you use [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/), you can run these commands to update it:

```
watchman shutdown-server
brew update
brew reinstall watchman
```

You can find [other installation methods](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install.html#build-install) on the Watchman documentation page.

If this still doesn’t help, try running `launchctl unload -F ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.github.facebook.watchman.plist`.

There are also reports that *uninstalling* Watchman fixes the issue. So if nothing else helps, remove it from your system and try again.

## `npm run build` exits too early

It is reported that `npm run build` can fail on machines with limited memory and no swap space, which is common in cloud environments. Even with small projects this command can increase RAM usage in your system by hundreds of megabytes, so if you have less than 1 GB of available memory your build is likely to fail with the following message:

>  The build failed because the process exited too early. This probably means the system ran out of memory or someone called `kill -9` on the process.

If you are completely sure that you didn't terminate the process, consider [adding some swap space](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-add-swap-on-ubuntu-14-04) to the machine you’re building on, or build the project locally.

## `npm run build` fails on Heroku

This may be a problem with case sensitive filenames.
Please refer to [this section](#resolving-heroku-deployment-errors).

## Moment.js locales are missing

If you use a [Moment.js](https://momentjs.com/), you might notice that only the English locale is available by default. This is because the locale files are large, and you probably only need a subset of [all the locales provided by Moment.js](https://momentjs.com/#multiple-locale-support).

To add a specific Moment.js locale to your bundle, you need to import it explicitly.<br>
For example:

```js
import moment from 'moment';
import 'moment/locale/fr';
```

If import multiple locales this way, you can later switch between them by calling `moment.locale()` with the locale name:

```js
import moment from 'moment';
import 'moment/locale/fr';
import 'moment/locale/es';

// ...

moment.locale('fr');
```

This will only work for locales that have been explicitly imported before.

## `npm run build` fails to minify

You may occasionally find a package you depend on needs compiled or ships code for a non-browser environment.<br>
This is considered poor practice in the ecosystem and does not have an escape hatch in Create React App.<br>
<br>
To resolve this:
1. Open an issue on the dependency's issue tracker and ask that the package be published pre-compiled (retaining ES6 Modules).
2. Fork the package and publish a corrected version yourself.
3. If the dependency is small enough, copy it to your `src/` folder and treat it as application code.

## Something Missing?

If you have ideas for more “How To” recipes that should be on this page, [let us know](https://github.com/kukuu?tab=repositories).

Commit message:

Updated README REACT, REDUX  SEARCH list
1. Optimise regular expression in node_modules.
2. Follow instructions from your CLI

search-list/README.md, after:



## REACT, REDUX SEARCH LIST


This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app).

To instal and run the application follow the following steps:

```

1. Clone the repository

2. run "npm i" or "npm install" from the command line

3. run "npm start"

4. Follow instructions to preview in default port from your local host or update port to preview

```
You may have to opitimise or silence a regular expression statement in your node_modules. Follow instructions from the command prompt if it happens.  Any issues  [let us know](https://github.com/kukuu?tab=repositories) or follow steps below:

## `npm start` doesn’t detect changes

When you save a file while `npm start` is running, the browser should refresh with the updated code.<br>
If this doesn’t happen, try one of the following workarounds:

* If your project is in a Dropbox folder, try moving it out.
* If the watcher doesn’t see a file called `index.js` and you’re referencing it by the folder name, you [need to restart the watcher](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/issues/1164) due to a Webpack bug.
* Some editors like Vim and IntelliJ have a “safe write” feature that currently breaks the watcher. You will need to disable it. Follow the instructions in [“Adjusting Your Text Editor”](https://webpack.js.org/guides/development/#adjusting-your-text-editor).
* If your project path contains parentheses, try moving the project to a path without them. This is caused by a [Webpack watcher bug](https://github.com/webpack/watchpack/issues/42).
* On Linux and macOS, you might need to [tweak system settings](https://webpack.github.io/docs/troubleshooting.html#not-enough-watchers) to allow more watchers.
* If the project runs inside a virtual machine such as (a Vagrant provisioned) VirtualBox, create an `.env` file in your project directory if it doesn’t exist, and add `CHOKIDAR_USEPOLLING=true` to it. This ensures that the next time you run `npm start`, the watcher uses the polling mode, as necessary inside a VM.

If none of these solutions help please leave a comment [in this thread](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/issues/659).

## `npm test` hangs on macOS Sierra

If you run `npm test` and the console gets stuck after printing `react-scripts test --env=jsdom` to the console there might be a problem with your [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/) installation as described in [facebookincubator/create-react-app#713](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/issues/713).

We recommend deleting `node_modules` in your project and running `npm install` (or `yarn` if you use it) first. If it doesn't help, you can try one of the numerous workarounds mentioned in these issues:

* [facebook/jest#1767](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/1767)
* [facebook/watchman#358](https://github.com/facebook/watchman/issues/358)
* [ember-cli/ember-cli#6259](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/issues/6259)

It is reported that installing Watchman 4.7.0 or newer fixes the issue. If you use [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/), you can run these commands to update it:

```
watchman shutdown-server
brew update
brew reinstall watchman
```

You can find [other installation methods](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install.html#build-install) on the Watchman documentation page.

If this still doesn’t help, try running `launchctl unload -F ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.github.facebook.watchman.plist`.

There are also reports that *uninstalling* Watchman fixes the issue. So if nothing else helps, remove it from your system and try again.

## `npm run build` exits too early

It is reported that `npm run build` can fail on machines with limited memory and no swap space, which is common in cloud environments. Even with small projects this command can increase RAM usage in your system by hundreds of megabytes, so if you have less than 1 GB of available memory your build is likely to fail with the following message:

>  The build failed because the process exited too early. This probably means the system ran out of memory or someone called `kill -9` on the process.

If you are completely sure that you didn't terminate the process, consider [adding some swap space](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-add-swap-on-ubuntu-14-04) to the machine you’re building on, or build the project locally.

## `npm run build` fails on Heroku

This may be a problem with case sensitive filenames.
Please refer to [this section](#resolving-heroku-deployment-errors).

## Moment.js locales are missing

If you use a [Moment.js](https://momentjs.com/), you might notice that only the English locale is available by default. This is because the locale files are large, and you probably only need a subset of [all the locales provided by Moment.js](https://momentjs.com/#multiple-locale-support).

To add a specific Moment.js locale to your bundle, you need to import it explicitly.<br>
For example:

```js
import moment from 'moment';
import 'moment/locale/fr';
```

If import multiple locales this way, you can later switch between them by calling `moment.locale()` with the locale name:

```js
import moment from 'moment';
import 'moment/locale/fr';
import 'moment/locale/es';

// ...

moment.locale('fr');
```

This will only work for locales that have been explicitly imported before.

## `npm run build` fails to minify

You may occasionally find a package you depend on needs compiled or ships code for a non-browser environment.<br>
This is considered poor practice in the ecosystem and does not have an escape hatch in Create React App.<br>
<br>
To resolve this:
1. Open an issue on the dependency's issue tracker and ask that the package be published pre-compiled (retaining ES6 Modules).
2. Fork the package and publish a corrected version yourself.
3. If the dependency is small enough, copy it to your `src/` folder and treat it as application code.

## Something Missing?

If you have ideas for more “How To” recipes that should be on this page, [let us know](https://github.com/kukuu?tab=repositories).
